sysdig doc update (#210)
bcgov/platform-developer-docs: src/docs/app-monitoring/sysdig-monitor-create-alert-channels.md

---

# Create alerts and notifications in Sysdig Monitor
Last updated: **December  18, 2023**

This document helps you create alerts based on monitoring dashboards in Sysdig Monitor that help notify your team when something needs attention.

> Additionally, you can find steps on how to set up Sysdig alerts with [Rocket.Chat](https://chat.developer.gov.bc.ca/).

Reviewer: @Pilargit12 this changes the meaning of this section. It should be something like 
```suggestion
These steps guide you through setting up Sysdig to post alerts via [Rocket.Chat](https://chat.developer.gov.bc.ca/).
```

Here are some steps on how to set up Sysdig alerts with [Rocket.Chat](https://chat.developer.gov.bc.ca/).

## On this page
- [Create alerts and notifications in Sysdig Monitor](#create-alerts-and-notifications-in-sysdig-monitor)
  - [On this page](#on-this-page)
  - [Create a Rocket.Chat chat channel and webhook for alert messages](#create-a-rocketchat-chat-channel-and-webhook-for-alert-messages)
  - [Create a Sysdig team notification channel](#create-a-sysdig-team-notification-channel)
  - [Creating an Alert](#creating-an-alert)
  - [Related pages:](#related-pages)
  - [Related resources:](#related-resources)

<!-- ### End of On this page -->

## Create a Rocket.Chat chat channel and webhook for alert messages

Rocket.Chat requires an incoming webhook to parse the data from Sysdig.

1. Create a RC chat channel for the alert messages to arrive if there isn't one.

   **Note:** You can do this by clicking on the 'Create New' menu in the left navigation pane and selecting `New Channel`.
    ![RC webhook config](../../images/sysdig-team-rc-create-channel.png)

2. Create an incoming webhook for the chat channel:

>    - Click on ellipsis menu icon-> Workspace -> Integrations -> New (on the right top corner). or at https://chat.developer.gov.bc.ca/admin/integrations -> New

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - In the left navigation pane of Rocketchat, click on the ellipsis menu icon-> Workspace -> Integrations -> New (on the right top corner). or at https://chat.developer.gov.bc.ca/admin/integrations -> New
```
Clarifying here since rocketchat has more than one elipses menu icon.

         "title_link": "{{@alert_url}}",
         "pretext": "{{@alert_description}}",
         "color": "#f93b10",
         "fields": [
           {
             "title": "State",
             "short": true,
             "value": "{{@event_state}}"
           },
           {
             "title": "Alert level",
             "short": true,
             {{#if_severity_high}}
             "value": "incident"
             {{#else}}
             "value": "warning"
             {{/if}}
           },
           {
             "title": "Condition",
             "short": false,
             "value": "{{@alert_warning_condition}}"
           },
           {
             "title": "Link to the Alert",
             "short": false,
             "value": "{{@alert_url}}"
           }
         ]
       }
     ]
   }
```

5. To test this notification, you have to pick one of the  **Select Alert Types** before you can **Send Test Notification**. Send test notification should send you a notification example in your channel if everything configured correctlly

6. After tested, Click `Save` and now you should be able to see this notification option available in alert

> 

Reviewer: I still don't get a working webhook notification after working through these steps. I'm not sure if there is some mistake I'm making, or point I'm missing, but this section might need more work to be ready.

Reviewer: My mistake here, forgot to 'enable' the integration which is now also added into the instructions.
